README.md, before:

# Tripmates: JuiCy buNS
Janice Lee  
Cynthia Zhou  
Nancy Luong  
Sophia Kwon

## Description
Tripmates is an online tool to collaboratively plan trips with other people. It provides an organized way for everyone involved in a trip to list activities they’re interested in, as well as an interface to collaboratively construct an itinerary for the trip.

## Notes for Milestone 1: Proof of Concept
Things that aren't quite done yet:

A couple additional checks on details to raise errors in the events api (if someone tries to create an event with an activity that's not in the trip, or with a time range that doesn't fall within the trip dates).
Writing more tests (in all test suites) to test situations in which we should expect errors (not logged in, etc).

Currently activity details (during create and edit) do not include places' open hours. Will implement this (in the UI) during the next milestone. An activity's place is not displayed when expending the activity view in a trip.

The calendar in Itinerary currently allows any dates when creating Events, when we should restrict dates to within the trip's dates. Only month view in Calendar works. Will restrict dates, and support week / day / agenda view in the next milestone.

## Notes for Milestone 2: MVP

The app supports joining a trip through sharing a code with another user. Users can now collaborate on editing their trip, creating, editing, and deleting activities, events, and itineraries of their trips. As one user deleting an item like a trip or activity can affect another user trying to edit an activity of the trip, we handle concurrency by alerting the user when they try to perform an action, but the item doesn't exist anymore. In addition, the user is prevented from creating an event during times when the place associated with that event is closed. Also featured is drag and drop on the calendar for creating events and a map that displays activities. 

Things that aren't quite done yet:

CSRF mitigation hasn't been implemented. 

We don't yet support checking the open hours of an event that goes past midnight or spans multiple days. 

Edit activity open hours isn't properly storing the hours on save. 

Leading to trips page if a trip is deleted (currently sometimes stays on trip page).

Change editing an activity's place, possibly allow for removing a place from activity.

## Notes for Milestone 3: Finished Product

We cut out some "extras" from our project plan, such as showing when users are online, adding avatars/profile pictures, and autofilling places.

## Deployed app

Version 1: 
http://juicy-buns-tripmates.herokuapp.com/ 
This version reloads all components of a trip's page once every 5 seconds, to reflect other users' edits. This may be a bit difficult to use to actively edit a trip because the create event modals, etc. also go back to their default values every 5 seconds. This version is best for seeing other users' edits in pseudo real time.

Version 2: 
https://juicy-buns-tripmates-norefresh.herokuapp.com/ 
This version does not reload the components every 5 seconds. Therefore, you don't see other users' edits until you make an edit yourself, at which point your page fetches all the components again. This version is best for actively making edits, since the information you see is as up to date as the last time you made an edit.

## Authorship of files:
Sophia Kwon: All files in models, routes, and test, relating to events, itineraries, and trips

Nancy Luong: All files in `src/Frontend/activity`, `src/Frontend/trip` and contributed to some of the components found in `src/Frontend/components`

Cynthia Zhou: All files in `src/Frontend/itinerary`, `src/Frontend/user`, and some of `src/Frontend/components`

Janice Lee: All files in models, routes, and test, relating to users, activities, places, open hours

## Installation
`npm i` in base repo, and `npm i` in `client` repo.

## Run locally
Copy `.env_template` to a file named `.env` in the base repo. Fill in database configurations.

In the base repo, run `npm start` to start the server.

Then, `cd client` and `npm start` to start the client. 

Head to `localhost:3000`.

## Test
`npm test`

Commit message:

Another note in the readme

README.md, after:

# Tripmates: JuiCy buNS
Janice Lee  
Cynthia Zhou  
Nancy Luong  
Sophia Kwon

## Description
Tripmates is an online tool to collaboratively plan trips with other people. It provides an organized way for everyone involved in a trip to list activities they’re interested in, as well as an interface to collaboratively construct an itinerary for the trip.

## Notes for Milestone 1: Proof of Concept
Things that aren't quite done yet:

A couple additional checks on details to raise errors in the events api (if someone tries to create an event with an activity that's not in the trip, or with a time range that doesn't fall within the trip dates).
Writing more tests (in all test suites) to test situations in which we should expect errors (not logged in, etc).

Currently activity details (during create and edit) do not include places' open hours. Will implement this (in the UI) during the next milestone. An activity's place is not displayed when expending the activity view in a trip.

The calendar in Itinerary currently allows any dates when creating Events, when we should restrict dates to within the trip's dates. Only month view in Calendar works. Will restrict dates, and support week / day / agenda view in the next milestone.

## Notes for Milestone 2: MVP

The app supports joining a trip through sharing a code with another user. Users can now collaborate on editing their trip, creating, editing, and deleting activities, events, and itineraries of their trips. As one user deleting an item like a trip or activity can affect another user trying to edit an activity of the trip, we handle concurrency by alerting the user when they try to perform an action, but the item doesn't exist anymore. In addition, the user is prevented from creating an event during times when the place associated with that event is closed. Also featured is drag and drop on the calendar for creating events and a map that displays activities. 

Things that aren't quite done yet:

CSRF mitigation hasn't been implemented. 

We don't yet support checking the open hours of an event that goes past midnight or spans multiple days. 

Edit activity open hours isn't properly storing the hours on save. 

Leading to trips page if a trip is deleted (currently sometimes stays on trip page).

Change editing an activity's place, possibly allow for removing a place from activity.

## Notes for Milestone 3: Finished Product

We cut out some "extras" from our project plan, such as showing when users are online, adding avatars/profile pictures, and autofilling places.

## Deployed app

Version 1: 
http://juicy-buns-tripmates.herokuapp.com/ 
This version reloads all components of a trip's page once every 5 seconds, to reflect other users' edits. This may be a bit difficult to use to actively edit a trip because the create event modals, etc. also go back to their default values every 5 seconds. This version is best for seeing other users' edits in pseudo real time.

Version 2: 
https://juicy-buns-tripmates-norefresh.herokuapp.com/ 
This version does not reload the components every 5 seconds. Therefore, you don't see other users' edits until you make an edit yourself, at which point your page fetches all the components again. This version is best for actively making edits, since the information you see is as up to date as the last time you made an edit.

Note that both these versions are connected to the same database, so you can access your account and trips at either of these links.

## Authorship of files:
Sophia Kwon: All files in models, routes, and test, relating to events, itineraries, and trips

Nancy Luong: All files in `src/Frontend/activity`, `src/Frontend/trip` and contributed to some of the components found in `src/Frontend/components`

Cynthia Zhou: All files in `src/Frontend/itinerary`, `src/Frontend/user`, and some of `src/Frontend/components`

Janice Lee: All files in models, routes, and test, relating to users, activities, places, open hours

## Installation
`npm i` in base repo, and `npm i` in `client` repo.

## Run locally
Copy `.env_template` to a file named `.env` in the base repo. Fill in database configurations.

In the base repo, run `npm start` to start the server.

Then, `cd client` and `npm start` to start the client. 

Head to `localhost:3000`.

## Test
`npm test`
